Migration scripts for HBase (#92289)
Azure/azure-content: articles/hdinsight/hbase/apache-hbase-migrate-new-version.md

## Apache HBase cluster migration overview

> To upgrade your Apache HBase cluster on Azure HDInsight, you complete the following basic steps. For detailed instructions, see the detailed steps and commands. Or use the scripts from the section "Migrate HBase using scripts" for an automated migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade your Apache HBase cluster on Azure HDInsight, complete the following basic steps. For detailed instructions, see the detailed steps and commands, or use the scripts from the section [Migrate HBase using scripts](#migrate-hbase-using-scripts) for automated migration.
```

   
1. If the destination cluster is satisfactory, delete the source cluster.

## Migrate HBase using scripts

1. Execute the script [migrate-hbase-source.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-source.sh) on the source cluster and [migrate-hbase-dest.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-dest.sh) on the destination cluster. Use the following instructions to execute these scripts.
   > [!NOTE]  
   > These scripts don't copy the HBase old WALs as part of the migration; therefore, the scripts are not to be used on clusters that have either HBase Backup or Replication feature enabled.

2. On source cluster
   ```bash
   sudo bash migrate-hbase-source.sh

3. On destination cluster
   ```bash
   sudo bash migrate-hbase-dest.sh  -f <src_default_Fs>

> Mandatory argument for the above command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mandatory argument for the above command:```
	-f, --src-fs
		The fs.defaultFS of the source cluster
		For example:
		-f wasb://anynamehbase0316encoder-2021-03-17t01-07-55-935z@anynamehbase0hdistorage.blob.core.windows.net
	```
  
```

   
1. If the destination cluster is satisfactory, delete the source cluster.

## Migrate HBase using scripts

> 1. Execute the script [migrate-hbase-source.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-source.sh) on the source cluster and [migrate-hbase-dest.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-dest.sh) on the destination cluster. The instructions to execute these scripts are below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute the script [migrate-hbase-source.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-source.sh) on the source cluster and [migrate-hbase-dest.sh](https://github.com/Azure/hbase-utils/blob/master/scripts/migrate-hbase-dest.sh) on the destination cluster. Use the following instructions to execute these scripts.
```

   > [!NOTE]  

>    > Note: these scripts don't copy the HBase old WALs as part of the migration; therefore, the scripts are not to be used on clusters which have either HBase Backup or Replication feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > These scripts don't copy the HBase old WALs as part of the migration; therefore, the scripts are not to be used on clusters that have either HBase Backup or Replication feature enabled.
```

2. On source cluster

> ```bash
> sudo bash migrate-hbase-source.sh
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
   sudo bash migrate-hbase-source.sh
   ```
```

3. On destination cluster

> ```bash
> sudo bash migrate-hbase-dest.sh  -f <src_default_Fs>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
   sudo bash migrate-hbase-dest.sh  -f <src_default_Fs>
   ```
```

Mandatory argument for the above command:

> ```
> -f, --src-fs
> 	The fs.defaultFS of the source cluster
> 	For example:
> 	-f wasb://anynamehbase0316encoder-2021-03-17t01-07-55-935z@anynamehbase0hdistorage.blob.core.windows.net
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
   -f, --src-fs
	   The fs.defaultFS of the source cluster
	   For example:
	   -f wasb://anynamehbase0316encoder-2021-03-17t01-07-55- 
  935z@anynamehbase0hdistorage.blob.core.windows.net
   ```
```
